Metastatic Castration Resistance Prostate Cancer (mCRPC)

 Clinical Description: 
 Clinical Description: Metastatic Castration Resistance Prostate Cancer (mCRPC)
Overview:
Metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC) is a lethal stage of prostate cancer characterized by disease progression despite castrate levels of testosterone. It typically follows an initial response to androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) in patients with metastatic castration-sensitive prostate cancer (mCSPC). Over time, resistance to hormonal therapy develops, leading to mCRPC, which is associated with a significantly poorer prognosis, with overall survival ranging from 11 to 35 months.

Metastatic Castration Resistance Prostate Cancer (mCRPC)
 Logic Description: 

 Cohort Entry Event:
People may enter the cohort when observing any of the following: 1. Condition occurrence of 'Diagnosis of metastatic malignant neoplasm' for the first time in the person's history. 2. Measurement of metastasis for the first time in the person's history, with value as concept: "present". Limit cohort entry events to the earliest event per person. Restrict entry events to with all of the following criteria: 1. Having at least 1 condition occurrence of '[EPI_1044] Prostate cancer', starting anytime on or before cohort entry start date; allow events outside observation period. 2. Having at least 1 observation period, starting between 365 days before and 1 days after cohort entry start date.

 Index Event:
The first observed metastatic disease diagnosis (on or after the first observed prostate cancer diagnosis)
 
Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria:
 1. Age and gender: Entry events with the following event criteria: who are male >= 18 years old. 
2. Evidence of castration resistance Entry events with at least 1 of the following criteria: 
2.1) Having at least 1 condition occurrence of any condition (including 'Diagnosis of hormone resistant malignancy (ICD-10-CM code)' source concepts), starting between 0 days after and all days after cohort entry start date. 
2.2) Having at least 1 procedure occurrence of 'Surgical castration procedures (right, left, or both)'; with any of the following criteria: 
2.2.1) Having at least 1 measurement of 'Prostate specific antigen (PSA) measurement', starting between 0 days after and all days after 'Surgical castration procedures (right, left, or both)' start date; with value as concept: "above reference range", "elevated", "high" or "high". 
2.2.2) Having at least 1 condition occurrence of any condition (including 'Diagnosis of rising PSA (ICD-10-CM code)' source concepts), starting between 0 days after and all days after 'Surgical castration procedures (right, left, or both)' start date. 
3. Having at least 1 drug era of 'ADT drugs', starting between 0 days after and all days after cohort entry start date; with era length &lt;= 90 days; with at least 1 of the following criteria: 
3.1) Having at least 1 measurement of any measurement, starting between 0 days after and all days after 'ADT drugs' start date; at same visit as 'ADT drugs'; with value as concept: "above reference range", "elevated", "high" or "high". 
3.2) Having at least 1 condition occurrence of any condition (including 'Diagnosis of rising PSA (ICD-10-CM code)' source concepts), starting between 0 days after and 90 days after 'ADT drugs' start date and ending between 0 days after and 90 days after 'ADT drugs' start date; at same visit as 'ADT drugs'. 
4. Having at least 1 condition occurrence of 'Surgical castration procedures (right, left, or both)', starting anytime up to 90 days before cohort entry start date. 5. Having at least 1 drug era of 'ADT drugs', starting anytime up to 90 days before cohort entry start date. 

 Cohort Exit:
 The person exits the cohort at the end of continuous observation.

